docs: add docs about API, create new pages (#56)
microsoft/griffel: apps/website/docs/react/api/merge-classes.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import OutputTitle from '@site/src/components/OutputTitle'

# mergeClasses

> There are cases where you need to merge classes from multiple `useClasses` calls. To properly merge the classes, you need to use `mergeClasses()` function, which performs merge and deduplication of atomic classes generated by `makeStyles()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are cases where you need to merge classes from multiple `useClasses` calls. To merge the classes correctly, you need to use `mergeClasses()` function, which merges and dedupes the atomic classes generated by `makeStyles()`.
```

```jsx
import { mergeClasses, makeStyles } from '@griffel/react';

const useClasses = makeStyles({
  blueBold: {
    color: 'blue',
    fontWeight: 'bold',
  },
  red: {
    color: 'red',
  },
});

function Component(props) {
  const { isBold } = props;
  const classes = useClasses();

  // ℹ️ Order of arguments determines the results

  const firstClassName = mergeClasses(isBold && classes.blueBold, classes.red);
  // 👆 { color: 'red', fontWeight: 'bold' }
  const secondClassName = mergeClasses(classes.red, isBold && classes.blueBold);
  // 👆 { color: 'blue', fontWeight: 'bold' }

  return (
    <>
      <div className={firstClassName} />
      <div className={secondClassName} />
    </>
  );
}
```

:::note

> Compared to native CSS order of arguments in `mergeClasses()` determines the results. This allows to control styles with JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to native CSS order of arguments in `mergeClasses()` determines the results. This lets you control styles with JavaScript.
```

:::

## Incorrect usages

This section shows and describes anti-patterns which should never be used.

### Never concatenate class strings

> :::caution

Reviewer: Let' s also give a code sample for merging without `mergeClasses`

Author: Not sure that I get this, we have a sample below that shows wrong behavior:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14183168/156205096-d4f96a4f-9f81-4c97-b4a4-3725d4673f48.png)

Reviewer: I guess, my point is that currently the section is just saying "dont't merge classes without `mergeClasses`".

I'm missing the why

Author: Added a note why.

> It is not possible to simply concatenate classes returned by `useClasses()` hooks. Always use `mergeClasses()` to perform classes merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not possible to simply concatenate classes returned by `useClasses()` hooks. Always use `mergeClasses()` to merge classes.
```

:::

```jsx
const useClasses = makeStyles({
  rootA: { color: 'red' },
  rootB: { color: 'blue' },
});

function App(props) {
  const classes = useClasses();
  // ⚠️ Never concatenate class strings, always use mergeClasses()
  const wrongClasses = classes.rootA + ' ' + classes.rootB;
}
```

### Order of arguments matters

> There might be an issue with incorrect order of classes - as the latest wins. In the example below `props.className` should be last to override the component styles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of classes is important - If two classes apply the same style, the latest class wins. In the example below the background color will be red:
```

Let's not use a library component specific example, simple red/blue will be much clearer
